Welcome to the eLearning session
Getting Started with Ensemble:
Requests, Responses and Queues.
Sending Requests and
receiving Responses
is fundamental to everything
you do an Ensemble.
This is how all communication
between Ensemble components
is done.
And this session
discusses the basics
of what Requests
and Responses are
and the Queues that are used to
pass them between components.
Each message has a Message
Header and a Message Body.
The Message Header
includes information
about the type and
status of the message.
The Message Header structure
is the same for all messages
and is defined by Ensemble.
The Message Body is the
message that the application
is sending.
The Message Body must
be a Persistent Object
and are stored in the database.
It might be a straightforward
Ensemble class.
Or it might be a more complex
entity such as an HL7 message.
When the message is sent,
Ensemble automatically
generates the Message Header.
The application code in the
Business Service or Business
Process creates an
instance of a Message Body,
just as it would any Object.
For pre-built components, such
as Ensemble's HL7 Business
Services, this is done for you.
Let's look at a
running Production.
The Business Service
CompositeOrderService
sends an order request
to the Business Process
CompositeOrderProcess
and waits for a response.
will process the order
and sends the response back
to the CompositeOrderService.
This web page sends an order
through CompositeOrderService
to be processed.
So we can select a Product,
define the Quantity,
place the order, and
wait for the response.
As you can see, the
order was placed
and we have a Total Cost.
Now, let's take a
look at the messages
that were sent in order
to accomplish this.
In order to look
at the messages,
we will use the Ensemble
Portal and go to View, Messages
to see the display
of all the messages.
The very first one should
be the order we just placed.
By clicking on
our first message,
we see the Header, the Body, the
full contents displayed as XML,
and more importantly, the Trace.
This shows all of the
messages that were processed
in order to handle the order.
Let's take a look at
the full view of this
so we can see this
in more detail.
The very first message is
a CompostieOrderRequest.
And here we can see, once
again, the header, the body,
and the contents
expressed as XML.
By clicking on each
message, we can
see the appropriate
information for that message.
By clicking on each
message, you can
see that the structure of
the header of each message
does not change, although the
information in the Message
Header does.
The Message Body is specific
to that message type
as defined by your
Ensemble Production.
So the body
information will change
based on the message
that is being set.
Any errors would also
appear in this Trace.
And you can further
diagnose any problems
that your Production may have.
Queues are just
entries in the database
that hold pointers to the
Message Headers waiting
to be set.
A queue exists for each Business
Process and each Business
Operation in a
running Production.
The name of the
Queue is the same
as the name of the
configuration item.
Because queues are
stored in the database,
they automatically
survive system shut down.
CompositeOrderService
creates an order Message Body
and sends the request
to CompositeOrderPRocess
synchronously, meaning that
the CompositeOrderService will
wait for a response.
Once the existence of the
Business Processes is verified,
a new Message Header
Object is created
and is property set,
including Message Body class
name and Message Body ID
to reflect the message
that the CompositeOrderService
is sending.
Both the Message Header and
Message Body are saved to disk.
And the ID of the
Message Header is
placed on the Queue for
CompositeOrderProcess.
The final step is to send a
signal to CompositeOrderProcess
so that it wakes up and
reads what is on its Queue.
If the Business Service sent
the message asynchronously,
it doesn't wait for a reply
but continues its execution.
Since CompositeOrderService
sent the message synchronously,
it waits for response from
CompositeOrderProcess.
This is done by creating
a new Queue that is only
accessed by
CompositeOrderService
and waits for a signal
saying it has arrived.
The application code in
CompositeOrderProcess,
processes the request, builds
a response Message Body,
and when it returns
as successful,
the Ensemble infrastructure
will automatically
create a Message Header,
put it on the private Queue,
and send a signal to wake
up CompositeOrderService.
At this point,
CompositeOrderService
will continue and do what it
wants to do with the response.
Now let's consider
a Business Process.
Unlike a Business Service,
a Business Process
has the ability to send
an asynchronous call, do
some other work, and then
sync on the response.
If the Business Process
is written in code,
a synchronous call is very
similar to a Business Service.
And for an asynchronous call,
you must include in your code
a call to synchronize
with the response.
For a Business
Process written in BPL
it is slightly different.
The call activity has a choice--
async equals true or false.
The default is true.
Specify async equals true to
send an asynchronous request.
Then you must add async activity
later in your business process
or the response
will be discarded.
If you specify
async equals false,
the message is still
sent asynchronously.
That sounds a little strange
so I'll reemphasize that.
If you say, async
equals false, it
is still sent as an
asynchronous request.
The difference is
that the synchronizing
is implicit in the call
and you do nothing.
And from a logical point of
view, it appears synchronous.
The reason for doing this
is that a Business Process
should almost never make
a truly synchronous call.
When a Business Process
makes an asynchronous call
and then syncs either
implicitly or explicitly,
the Business Process
status is written to disk.
And the job that is implementing
the Business Process
is free to do more work.
If a Business Process had to
wait for any significant amount
of time for a response,
using truly synchronous calls
would cause the Business
Process to be blocked.
Increasing the Pool Size can
help but at the cost of memory
and the loss of first
in first out processing.
If you really need to do
truly synchronous calls,
this could be achieved
using a code block.
But this is an
exceptional requirement.
For both explicit sync
and an implicit sync,
the Business Process will resume
when the response is returned.
While it seems obvious
to us that the response
for CompositeOrderService came
from CompositeOrderProcess.
CompositeOrderService doesn't
know nor care about that.
It just has a
response on its Queue.
This will become
important later.
You've been watching
Getting Started
with Ensemble: Requests,
Responses, and Queues.